![alt text](https://github.com/TaylorHokanson/ThreeYearContract/blob/master/images/three.jpg "ThreeYearContract")

### ThreeYearContract
An interactive artwork featuring
[defamiliarized](http://www.blackwellreference.com/public/tocnode?id=g9781405183123_chunk_g97814051831236_ss1-1) cellphones.

### Project Description
Every once in a while, a new technology (e.g. the Polio vaccine) makes
the world a better place without demanding some sort of major trade-off.
More often, however, our advancements require that society shift to
accommodate their less desirable effects. ThreeYearContract calls our
attention to the impossible promise of the cellphone: simultaneous
presence both here and somewhere else.

TYC is comprised of two identical interactive objects. These objects
appear to be plain wooden blocks with the basic proportions of an
oversized smartphone. Each unit is placed in the center of a small
carpet that sits on the ground, and these carpets are installed in two
separate public areas around Linz. The work is battery operated, so the
location of these installations is quite flexible and could even change
over the duration of the show.

When an audience member kneels on a carpet and places their forehead
against a block, they activate the unit and cause it to make a call to
its counterpart. The second unit responds by vibrating, and can be
answered when another audience member places their forehead against it.
The call is ended when either participant stands up.

Though non-participating observers can hear one side of the resulting
conversation, they cannot hear the audio originating from the device.
This is due to the use of a bone conduction transducer; a device that
conducts sound to the inner ear directly through the skull. The absurd
visual produced by interaction with TYC is intended to inspire critical
reevaluation of our ubiquitous communication devices, and the ways that
this technology controls how we interact with one another.